<!-- markdownlint-disable no-trailing-spaces -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->

# Latex Maven Plugin

This site is under construction.
Thus, we refer the reader
to the [development site](https://github.com/Reissner/maven-latex-plugin)
and in particularly the 'README.md' therein.
Check in particular the section on the maven plugin. 
For a really detailed description in contrast see 
[manual as a PDF](http://www.simuline.eu/LatexMavenPlugin/manualLMP.pdf).
Note that this manual is created by this `maven-latex-plugin`
and serves also as a test suite for the plugin. 
It is also available as an [HTML page](http://www.simuline.eu/LatexMavenPlugin/manualLMP.html), 
created from the same source, 
but as HMTL creation is not really mature and comprehensive enough, 
we still recommend the PDF version.

If you have problems applying this `maven-latex-plugin`
or feel a feature is missing, please don't hesitate
and [let me know](mailto:rei3ner@arcor.de). 

The `latex-maven-plugin` translates LaTeX documents into PDF,
HTML or other LaTeX output formats like DVI or Postscript,
during the maven site lifecycle.
Internally, the plugin calls the standard LaTeX tools,
like `lualatex` for PDF and `tex4ht` for HTML output.
Hence, a LaTeX distribution has to be installed on the
computer running the maven build.

By default, LaTeX documents and resources like graphics files
are assumed to reside in the maven project's
`src/site/tex` folder.
The resulting files will be in the folder `target/site/tex`,
making them a part of the maven site.
Thus, other maven site artifacts (like HTML pages build from apt files)
may link to them.

The `maven-latex-plugin` tries to be smart
by analyzing the LaTeX converter's output and running the converter as often
as needed (running LaTeX more than once is needed when 
e.g. building a table of contents or when using `bibtex`
to maintain a bibliography and citations). 

## Goals Overview 

Most of the goals are on creating output in a given format. 

- [`latex:cfg`](./cfg-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the formats listed as `targets` in the configuration 
  as shown [by example](./example_targets.html). 
- [`latex:dvi`](./dvi-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `dvi`, except for converter `xelatex` 
  which generates the according format `xdv`. 
- [`latex:pdf`](./pdf-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `pdf`. 
- [`latex:odt`](./odt-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `odt`. 
- [`latex:docx`](./docx-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `xdoc` or `doc`, depending on the configuration. 
- [`latex:rtf`](./rtf-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `rtf`. 
- [`latex:html`](./html-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the format `html` or `xhtml`, depending on the configuration. 
- [`latex:txt`](./txt-mojo.html) creates output 
  in the text format `txt`. 
- [`latex:chk`](./chk-mojo.html) checks sources via `chktex` 
  without deploying an artifact. 
  The artifact is a log file containing errors, warnings and info. 

The goal `cfg` is special in that all other formats can be specified 
as `targets` and also combinations are possible. 
The other goals refer to single output formats, 
each of which can specified as an entry in `targets`. 
This is also true for the second special goal, `chk`, 
which performs a check only and creates nothing but a log file. 
Unlike the artifacts of the other goals, 
`chk` transfers no artifact to the build folder. 

The following goals are not directly related with building of artifacts.  

- [`latex:clr`](./clr-mojo.html) cleans artifacts 
  and intermediate files generated by this software. 
  In general this is not needed, 
  but for a [special case](./example_clean.html). 
- [`latex:dvl`](./dvl-mojo.html) creates configuration files 
  for `latexmk` and for `chktex` 
  fitting the configuration of this software. 
  This is needed to [synchronize](./example_rc.html) 
  `latexmk` and `chktex` with this software. 
- [`latex:grp`](./grp-mojo.html) creates graphic files only. 
  Some use cases are [mentioned](./example_grp.html) but without aiming completeness. 
- [`latex:vrs`](./vrs-mojo.html) displays tools used, 
  their actual version and the allowed versions. 
  A warning is emitted if the actual version is not intended. 
  This is discussed also in more [detail](./example_vrs.html). 


# Usage 

  General instructions on how to use the Clean Plugin can be found on the [usage page](./usage.html). 
  Some more specific use cases are described in the examples given below.

  In case you still have questions regarding the plugin's usage, 
  please have a look at the [FAQ](./faq.html) 
  and feel
  free to contact the [user mailing list](./mail-lists.html). 
  The posts to the mailing list are archived and could
  already contain the answer to your question 
  as part of an older thread. 
  Hence, it is also worth browsing/searching
  the mail archive.

  If you feel like the plugin is missing a feature or has a defect, you can submit a feature request or bug report in our
  [issue tracker](./issue-management.html). 
  When creating a new issue, 
  please provide a comprehensive description of your concern. 
  Especially for fixing bugs it is crucial 
  that the developers can reproduce your problem. 
  For this reason,
  entire debug logs, POMs or most preferably little demo projects attached to the issue are very much appreciated.
  Of course, patches are welcome, too. Contributors can check out the project from our
  [source repository](./scm.html) 
  and will find supplementary information in the
  [guide to helping with Maven](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-helping.html). 

  ## Examples 

  To provide you with better understanding 
  on some usages of this plugin, 
  you can take a look into the following examples: 

  - a very simple configuration 
   [to create PDF files](./example_simple.md.vm)
  - a configuration specifying the [target formats](./example_targets.md.vm)
  - a [typical configuration](./example_typical.html) 
    taking other tools and debugging into account 
  - a configuration with [all settings](./example_complex.html) set. 